Peter, welcome back to Talk Python To Me.
Well, thank you so much for having me.
It's great to be here.
It's always good to have you.
I love your perspective on things.
It's always very thoughtful and fun,
and I don't see why this would be any different.
We're going to have a great time.
I'm looking forward to the conversation very much.
I am as well.
So let's, you know, you've been on the show a number of times,
but let's maybe just have you do a quick introduction for yourself,
just for people who don't know you.
Who are you?
I am, yes.
So I am the co-founder at Anaconda.
I also helped create the PyData movement,
so really taking the Python,
scientific Python numerical ecosystem
into the world of data analysis and open source data science.
I guess 12 years ago we started,
and I've created a number of open source tools,
some more popular than others,
but really I think maybe my biggest role
and contribution to the ecosystem has been
as sort of a community steward
or as someone who's been, you know,
really trying to help drive commercial adoption
and really trying to make sure that there are on ramps for businesses,
large scale and small scale,
to adopt Python and continue using Python.
And that really, a lot of my perspective there,
even though, of course, many of my colleagues in the open source Python community
have spent a lot of time as developers in startups and, you know, big high-tech companies,
one of the things that I learned early on as a consultant
was that enterprises have a very, very different approach to adopting technology,
and open source even now can still be challenging to them.
So there's a role for some of us to play in that commercialization and advocacy for open source.
And, you know, 15 years ago I was advocating for Python in, you know,
rooms full of Java and .NET,
very, very stodgy and angry Java and .NET architects.
And now, you know, it's sort of…
How could you possibly come and recommend a dynamic language for our professional software?
It doesn't even have types.
Exactly.
It's got just white space stuff.
It doesn't…
Do you have tabs or space?
I mean, yeah, I lived…
I mean, I have, you know, a thousand-yard stare
thinking about some of those meetings sometimes.
But we prevailed.
And now we have the other side.
We have the flip side of the coin,
which is that our little technology ecosystem has now grown up.
It's crossed the chasm.
And now everyone's using it, even if they don't like it,
even if they kind of hate it.
They have to use it because now it's a thing everyone does use.
And so conversely, so the flip side of the coin is defending Python,
even when it is ubiquitous.
So it's really interesting having to engage in these different dynamics of the conversation
and then also trying to bring my perspective into conversations
as the ecosystem matures and the cast of players is different.
So it's just been, you know, honestly, I just feel a great deal of gratitude
towards the community, towards many of the great people I've met,
people like you who, you know, I mean, how the energy it takes to run a series
like you've done for as many years as you've done it.
It is…
There are almost 10 years now.
It's unbelievable.
It is.
It's really oftentimes very, very…
It's under-recognized work, I would say, as, you know, a community advocate
and as someone who elevates so many great voices in the community.
And so all of us kind of in the Python tribe ecosystem, you know,
we're all trying to do our best to kind of make things go.
But it's just been really wonderful to see the impact that we've had.
And I think a lot of the work that we did did lay the groundwork
for modern machine learning and then, you know, making GPUs accessible and usable.
And now Python is the language that everyone is doing AI in.
You know, whether they're deep into the innards of it or not,
they're writing mostly Python code to build these AI tools.
And that's really been a wonderful and interesting thing to see.
So anyway, that was a long-winded thing about who am I.
But yeah, so I was a CTO here at Anaconda for a while, sort of founding CTO.
And then I was CEO for four years.
And this year, I stepped into the chief AI officer role,
really to try to help us explore and define what is the future of a company
that's really been focused on Python coding for data science.
What does that future look like in a world that is obviously being
rapidly transformed by AI, right?
Yeah.
Well, you're leading one of the main data science companies
for the primary language for AI in the world.
So yeah, it makes a lot of sense.
That's awesome.
You know, when we talked, I can't remember how many times ago,
but one of the times ago, we talked about bringing Python into the enterprise
and sort of making it more acceptable for large companies and so on.
I want to show you a graph here.
I'm sure you're familiar with the TOB index.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Many people are.
But I think there's something interesting here that I noticed.
It just blew my mind.
And I just like to get your thoughts on it.
So a while ago, a couple of years ago,
Python became the number one language on the TOB index, right?
But what's interesting is not just that.
I hadn't seen the number 24.
Wow.
Yes, it's more than double the second most popular language.
More than double.
And so it's more than double as popular as C++ was number two,
then Java, then C, then C#, then JavaScript.
The most popular one of those is more than double.
But that's not the number that's actually most interesting to me.
The more interesting number is the derivative of that,
which is the rate of change.
Python is growing at almost 9% year over year,
where the others are like half a percent, a third of a percent,
one percent, negative three percent.
What do you think about this?
How does that say with you?
It's wild, right?
Well, I mean, I guess congratulations.
I'm sorry.
Because Python, we haven't decreased the number of warts
by 10% year over year, right?
I mean, more and more people are learning this language,
and there are some idiosyncrasies,
and there is a complex ecosystem.
But the real story behind this is what they're not showing
is the denominator.
And as I recall, TOB is based on a number of things.
It's sort of a mixed model, right,
of web searches, stack overflow,
which I don't know how they adjust that
given modern usage of LLMs and ChatGPT and copilot
and things like that.
But it's a combination of all these different kinds of metrics.
And I know one of the criticisms of TOB has been that,
oh, it doesn't tell the whole story, right?
But it certainly is a swag.
And the swag has been Python's been on the uptick,
on the rise.
I think with the advent of, I guess, November,
this month marks the two-year anniversary of ChatGPT.
The number of new people coming in to making software
or doing deeper things with code
than they could have done before is growing.
And so I think when we look at a thing like this,
you know, this is the fun number.
So I actually, in my PyCon keynote,
when I announced PyScript,
I sort of asked people this question.
How many software developers are there in the world?
What is actually anyone who knows anything about IT in the world?
Anyone who can, you know, plug in a server,
knows how to boot, you know, boot disk,
can write a line of SQL code,
can, you know, fudge some Python or JavaScript or HTML together.
Anybody who can do anything related to computers,
not stare at the screen dumbfounded.
What percentage of the population is that?
And the swag is something like 4% of the population, right?
Which in a world of 8 billion people, that's a lot of people.
But that's not a lot of people.
Imagine a room of 100 people,
four of them know how to do anything with computers out of 100, right?
Maybe one and a half know about farming.
So that's even more terrifying.
But we live in a computational world
and about 4% of the people of the world's population are involved in IT.
Now that's not, you know,
normalized against developed countries versus developing countries
and all this other kind of stuff.
But at the end of the day,
you know, we would admit that there are something
on the order of tens of millions of software developers.
But if we say we're going to open the doors
to allow anyone to be asking a question
of an interactive coding assistant
to then be able to produce software,
to maybe write a Kubernetes,
configure a Docker file,
Kubernetes YAML thing,
whatever it is,
you are now opening the floodgates
to a 25X number of people that can do code.
It won't be great code.
Actually, sometimes might be better code
than a junior dev could do.
But nonetheless, the point is,
there was a lot of headroom that we were ignoring.
And I think a lot of Python's growth
can be attributed to that.
And one of the biggest things that we found
going to businesses and talking about using Python,
especially for data science,
was how many of them did not understand this concept
of a data person who would use Python or R
to do a data analysis.
For them, an analyst is someone who used Excel or Tableau.
And then coders are people who wrote code.
And they would lump the Python data science,
Jupyter notebook person in with the Java nerds.
And those are two very different kinds of people.
So I think this expansion and growth
of these people who code Python
as a way of getting some stuff done,
but are not software developers,
that's going to push those TOE numbers even higher.
Yeah, I think so as well.
It's a great observation.
And there's been all these learn to code movements,
trying to get kids to learn coding and stuff.
And I do think those are valuable.
I don't think it means we need 10x the number of software developers,
but I think having programming skills is awesome.
But I feel like LLMs and ChatGPT and so on,
they're going to make a way bigger impact
than if you took a scratch class in fifth grade.
You know?
Yeah, yeah.
And I, you know, there's,
well, not to get too philosophical on it, I suppose,
but one of the, oh, can you hear me okay?
I thought my, how did my, yeah.
I don't think we need 25x more software engineers, right?
Just like we teach people math,
we don't need 25x more mathematicians.
And we teach people English,
we don't need 25x more authors.
But everyone should be able to author,
to do some math,
to think quantitatively about the world.
And with code,
I think the important thing isn't,
are you a scratch coder?
It's do you understand how computers process information?
And what is happening to your stuff, right?
And how you're interacting with these things.
It's really,
I think that's kind of the weird moment we're going through,
where people really have to look at
these kind of programming-like skills,
or knowledge of computers,
as a literacy, or a life skill.
Again, it's like learning to drive.
Doesn't mean you're going to be an F1 race car driver.
There's only a few dozen of those in the world.
But everyone needs to know how to drive, right?
So there's something about this that I think is lost.
When we're teaching,
I think what happened,
is in the last 20 years,
software development was in such demand.
And all of those software businesses took off so much
that they made so much money.
So software engineers made so much money.
So everyone's like,
I'm going to learn how to code.
So I'm doing these really sweet coding jobs.
And that turns out,
that's not actually the thing, right?
It looked like a gold rush, sort of.
It was absolutely a gold rush.
Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah.
Awesome.
Well, let's talk a bit about Anaconda.
First, Justin,
maybe, I mean,
you talked about your roles changing there,
but just give us a sense of what is Anaconda.
I know there's a lot of people out there listening.
I'll throw,
I'll deal with another stat that blew me away.
because the PSF JetBrains Python developer survey
asks all the respondents,
how long have you been programming
as a professional software developer
in any language,
not just Python?
And the 50% of the respondents said less than two years.
Right, right.
So a lot of the people out there listening
maybe don't even know what Anaconda is,
even though it's very well known within the Python space.
Give us a bit about what you guys are up to these days.
Yeah, so we started,
I think we're probably best known
as the providers of the eponymous Anaconda distribution
and the installers for the various packages.
And really our bread and butter
is building out the Python packages,
maintaining a kind of curated repository,
and really selling access to that
to commercial businesses
that want to actually have a vendor-backed,
vendor-supported source of Python packages.
And for most Python packages,
I mean, there's many people in the world
who are very happy pip installing off PyPI.
Things work great.
But when you get into some of the more numerical
or maybe GPU-intensive packages,
the way it gets built is enormously important
and can sometimes be very, very challenging.
So when we started Anaconda over 10 years ago,
it was actually very, very hard
to get those pre-built binaries installed.
Now it's a little bit easier.
People are rolling a lot of libraries
into these big fat wheels from PyPI.
And that can work pretty well in some cases.
In some cases, it fails catastrophically.
But what we do is we provide enterprise support.
We provide also just a validated
and secure open source supply chain
around these really important binary artifacts
that then become deployed into Docker containers
that become then the runtime for machine learning
and data processing
for very sensitive customer data and things like that.
So we have a model that's very similar
to what Red Hat did for Linux, right?
Where you can get Linux for free.
You can run the free stuff.
You can go and pick up packages
from the free community repositories.
But if you're really serious
about a business runtime environment
and you really want to have like,
you know, a throat to throttle,
so to speak,
if something is not quite right,
then you go and you go pay Red Hat
for the annual subscription.
And so we have very similar business model around that.
We made the Conda package manager.
But to be very clear,
the Conda package manager
is an open source project.
So we put that into the open source
and have a community around that.
The Conda Forge community
is the package build community around that.
We host the repositories there,
but those are free for everyone to use.
So we really have been,
you know, from a business standpoint,
that's a bread and butter,
working with things like Microsoft Excel
and working with things like Snowflake
to really embed polished Python runtimes
inside those computational environments.
That's something we started doing a few years back.
This year, I think for the most part,
people's experiences of Anaconda
have not changed too much,
just Conda packaging, whatever.
But there are a lot of things
kind of happening behind the scenes, right?
So we did, for instance,
the Python Excel stuff,
which we'll be talking about later,
is a huge thing that we're very excited about.
But then we've also been pushing forward
on our perspectives on AI.
So we know that a lot of,
like I said earlier,
a lot of AI is built on Python.
A lot of AI relies on having
the right packages and software
alongside the models and whatnot.
And we have a particular belief
that the models will get smaller
and more people want to run
these models locally
or close to their sensors and their data.
They're not going to want to upload these
into the cloud,
or it's not going to be feasible
because there's a lot of video streams
from many different kinds of sensors.
And they're going to want to have
a solid software stack
to run these models
that they need to update and fine tune.
And so really looking at ourselves
as a provider of that kind of,
that level of the software stack for people,
that's kind of what we're orienting towards.
So we released a product called AI Navigator,
which people can go and use to download models.
We host the model repository.
So we have a curated set of quantized models
that we're hosting.
And so people who,
you know,
one of the things that we got
from our enterprise customers quite a bit
was,
hey,
we like using your enterprise software package repository.
We love that it's,
you know,
has your stamp of security approval on it.
But do you have anything like that for models?
Because we just right now
download stuff off Hugging Face
and that's kind of okay.
But like,
you know,
like we don't really know
quantized this.
Running arbitrary code off the internet.
How could it go wrong?
And,
you know,
not to throw shade on any of that
because an open innovation is great.
But,
but people do feel like,
you know,
we need something in between there.
So we have both our AI Navigator,
which lets you run models locally.
It's similar to like,
if you use like a LM Studio
or something like that,
it's a nice way
to sort of get all this stuff running locally.
But then,
but then you also get a,
we have our model repo,
which is kind of right now
in an alpha stage,
alpha beta stage
for people to,
if they want to run that on-prem,
they can then have an on-prem model repo
and IT can actually have a view
on what's getting deployed
in various places.
So it's a very similar kind of model.
We're just kind of responding
to customer needs.
So there's a couple of products
that we're building on the AI side.
And there's a lot of other
sort of exploratory bits of AI.
So we've added an AI assistant
into our hosted cloud notebooks.
And we've just actually added
GPU support to cloud notebooks.
So if you go to amicron.com
and you go create an account,
you have actually access
to a hosted notebook,
cloud notebook solution
that also has access to GPUs
and has a chat assistant.
But the thing is that that's not,
that can be a local experience as well.
So you're running Jupyter locally,
you have an in-situ,
you know,
chat assistant right there.
And that's been trained.
That's our own fine tunes
based on how people use
Jupyter interactively,
which is different
than training Jupyter
on a corpus of uploaded notebooks.
Those are actually
very different kinds of things.
So those are kind of
the new things
we've been working on.
And then, of course,
there's updates
to various kinds of technologies.
Panel,
we're doing, you know,
dashboard building.
PyScript continues to get better.
And so, yeah,
I'm probably forgetting
a dozen other things.
But those are kind of
the highlights
of the things
that we've been pushing on.
Yeah, yeah.
You guys also did PyScript,
which we'll talk
a little bit about later,
potentially,
if we have some time for it.
What are your thoughts
on this PEP 759
external wheel hosting?
You referred to wheels
as big, heavy, binary things.
Oh, no.
So to be very clear,
wheels can be very lightweight,
but they can also be very heavy.
And in fact,
what a lot of people
who are not package maintainers,
you know,
I think most Python users
are like,
the package install part
of my workflow
is the least interesting
and oftentimes
the most painful part
of my workflow.
I really don't care.
I just want it to work, right?
And unfortunately,
you know,
that doesn't always go well
because you end up
having a drag in complexity.
And so we're going to get
into some of the complexity here.
But for those who are interested,
I did give a talk at PyBay
just a month ago, I think.
And it's up on YouTube now.
It's called
The Five Demons
of Python Packaging.
And I try to lay out for people
why it is that the,
why is Python so screwed up
in terms of the Python
packaging environment?
Can we just do what Cargo does?
Or can we just do what NPM does?
Or why doesn't Go have this problem?
Or what, you know,
like yada yada.
So I think there's a,
I don't want to argue with people,
but I want to share my context, right?
In that context.
Oh, this is it, right.
I'll put it in the show notes
for people, yeah.
Great.
Yeah, my context is that there are,
if you go to the very beginning
of the slide,
I have a picture
from Gödel Escher-Bach, right?
The cover of the book,
Gödel Escher-Bach.
And it shows that this block
in the middle
looks like the letter G, E, or B,
depending on which direction
you're shining the light.
Many people may be familiar
with this book and its cover.
And that's how I think
of Python packaging.
I have the great misfortune
of having wandered
all five or six dimensions
in my career.
But most people experience
only two or three
of those dimensions.
So for their perspective,
it could just be this simple.
Or why don't I just do that?
I just homebrew my dependencies
or I just use RPM
to install these base libraries
and then I pip install
these other things in a Docker
and I'm done, right?
But what we have to do
as maintainers
and also as people
who kind of cater
to a broad tens of millions
large user land
is we have to account
for all six of those dimensions.
And sometimes they're not
obvious to people, right?
So in the case of wheels,
come back to the discussion
about wheels
and Barry's proposal there.
The issue that many maintainers
have with wheels
especially if they're maintainers
of libraries
that have a lot of C dependencies
is that you're stuck
between a devil
and a hard place
or a rock and a hard place.
And so you have to decide,
do I bundle
all these dependencies in?
In which case,
I own the compatibility issues
and I own the security issues
that come with having bundled
in a bunch of C libraries
or C++ libraries.
If I don't bundle them in,
then users are kind of stuck
trying to install this
thing, right?
And so what we find
is that for some libraries,
it's okay.
For other libraries,
it's very difficult.
And the Python ecosystem,
I think,
ultimately still does not
have a great solution
to this.
And wheels,
as you know,
the way that they,
the PyPA
and the pip maintainers
and other people
we've talked to
over the years,
they really want to think
of the packaging problem
as a Python packaging problem.
and with Conda,
because it was built,
it was purpose built
for the scientific Python ecosystem,
we knew from the outset
that our problem
was bigger than Python.
In fact,
most of our problem
was packaging stuff
that wasn't Python.
The Python bits
were trivial almost,
right?
but it's the,
what version of Clang,
what C++ ABI do you use?
What version of this
do you link?
What flags do you turn on
when you invoke GCC here?
When you go
and you compile something
and all of that,
not only are you including
all the C libraries,
you're also inheriting
all of the design,
sorry,
the configuration options
of the build tool chain
at compile time.
It's an enormously complex thing
that ends up getting wrapped up
into a single wheel,
right?
So with Conda,
these are represented
as explicit dependencies
with feature flags
and you can then sort of
do this package
sort of dependency solver,
which of course is,
you know,
good and bad.
If it's,
you know,
if the ecosystem gets too big,
the solve takes too long,
but then if you don't do that solve,
then you just run
into stochastic
and irreproducible installations.
So what do you do,
right?
So this proposal,
but specifically about this proposal
that Barry's put out there,
this is,
I think,
meant to address,
and he works now at NVIDIA
and people who've had to deal
with GPU packages
know that the CUDA libraries
can be quite large.
They get pretty big
and they are somewhat of a tax
on the hosting infrastructure,
on the CDN there for PyPI.
And so the limit that PyPI has imposed
makes it difficult
for them to kind of have
increasingly larger packages
and all these like nightly bills
that they want to upload.
So this proposal is,
can we split this out?
These RIM files.
And so we put a placeholder
in place on PyPI
and then put the actual package
over here,
right?
Right.
If NVIDIA wants to ship
a 400 meg
pip installable package
and let them host it.
Right.
Something like that,
right?
That's right.
And so this gets to
one of the demons
I mentioned,
which is that
a repository
is not the same
as a distribution
and it's not the same
as an FTP site
or a Dropbox.
These are actually
very different things.
And I have not
actually commented
officially on this
on the discourse at all.
I've had some private
conversations with people,
but I might as well,
since you asked,
my thought is that
this is not a bad idea,
but the challenge is
we are going to
go down a path
essentially
of having to solve
the cap theorem.
Okay.
What I mean by that is
if you view PyPI,
like what is PyPI?
Is it a Dropbox
where anyone could just
upload whatever?
okay,
but the problem there
is if someone
installs something today
and they try to install
again tomorrow
or two weeks from now,
they're going to generally
want the same kinds
of things.
And if it's just
a Dropbox,
then no one is responsible
for providing
a stable snapshot
of what points
to what
and what is what
even.
Because in the space
of even an hour
or two
on something
as large as PyPI,
you can have updates.
You can have updates
of versions
with different build strings.
people can yank a file
because oh my god,
I bought the build on that
and so on and so forth.
So if you view it
just as a Dropbox,
that's okay.
But then all the work
of consistency
and reproducibility
gets foisted
onto the install tools,
the client side tools.
Whether it's UV,
whether it's PIP,
whether it's Poetry,
PyM,
you name it,
Hatch, PDM,
Poetry,
all these wonderful tools.
Anaconda too,
I should put that out there, right?
Everyone is trying
to solve this problem
and the question is,
is the repository host
going to solve
the atomic
sort of state view
or is the client
going to have to
piece it together somehow?
And then,
the reason I mentioned
the cap theorem is
if you say,
okay,
we should pretend
that it's somewhat
of a stable repository,
not just a Dropbox,
but as a repository,
that means that
there's a snapshot
of things
at a state in time,
the metadata.
Well, okay,
but if you allow
for some of these packages
to be hosted over here,
now you have
a distributed database.
You have a distributed
object database
massively distributed.
Massively distributed.
And NVIDIA,
obviously,
as a trillion-dollar company,
can keep up a CDN,
okay?
But they cannot avoid
net splits.
They cannot avoid
a backhoe in Reston
nuking a fiber line
somewhere, right?
You cannot avoid
the kinds of things
that happen
that cause
a distributed network
database
to suffer
consistency problems.
So now someone
building a Docker,
and when you're
looking at something
as important
as the CUDA-oriented
libraries,
the RAPIDS libraries,
these really important
foundational GPU libraries,
people are pulling these
to the tune
of thousands
and thousands
per second.
So you have got
to make sure
you're consistent
all the time.
Otherwise,
someone's production
Docker build
falls back
on an old version
because they couldn't
get the most recent one.
Or in the best case,
it times out
and complains loudly.
The worst case,
it fails silently
and falls back.
And whatever client-side
tool they're using
then says,
well, I can't get that,
so I'm going to solve
this way,
I'm going to install
this other thing
over here.
They pick up an old version
and now you have
whatever reason
your model build
deployment doesn't work.
Maybe you picked up
a regression equivalent
of a bug
that you know
is fixed in the new one.
You asked for the new one
but you didn't get
the new one.
You didn't get the new one.
And so the point is
the reason I cite
the cap theorem
is at some point
a package hosting site
like this
has to decide
is it just a Dropbox?
Is it a repository?
Right?
And if it's the latter,
then it has to offer
an atomic and consistent
verifiable view
of the metadata.
That's with Conda.
We have a thing called
repodata.json
and it is a big fat file
and it is basically
the snapshot of the repository
and it is transactional.
So you get the whole thing
and then you can do the solve
and say,
I want these pieces
and then you go get those pieces.
So from a design standpoint,
architect standpoint,
it's not that complicated,
but it is a different,
it's a design difference.
Then when you think about
PIP installing off PyPI,
it is eager
and opportunistic,
let's say, right?
So it goes,
tries to install a thing,
it grabs that,
looks through and says,
oh, I need these things.
It goes and grabs those things.
And so over the course
of a multi-second long
or maybe, you know,
multi-minute long install,
you don't actually get
a consistent view
of the repository.
And so with this,
this now says,
really stresses the question.
I think what the RIM proposal does,
it really forces the question of,
is PyPI a repository
or is it a hosting site?
Like Sunsite thought,
yeah,
fdp at sunset.edu back in the day.
And you just go grab whatever
and good luck
and all that complexity
of consistency
is then the responsibility
of the client side tools
to manage.
That is the design decision
you can make, right?
Yeah,
I hadn't even thought about it
from a reproducibility science
or even just
old applications perspective.
That's pretty interesting
to think about.
If I read this, Pep,
I don't recall
if it talked about
a backup
that would allow
the PyPA
to create
some kind of snapshot
that says,
even if those mirrors
went away,
this is the reality
of things, right?
I mean,
it's one thing to say,
well,
let's let NVIDIA
handle the 100 megabyte
download request
a thousand times a second.
But we got a copy of it
and if that fails,
we can switch over
to our version
versus let's let them
hold that part
and if it fails,
it's just gone
and there's nothing
but an empty rim.
There's no wheel.
Right.
But consider this.
If I discover
a zero day
in one of those things,
and by the way,
these things are
low-level libraries
that touch kernel space things
and things in the driver
and they touch memory
and there's all these things
and there's like,
there are real implications
on this kind of stuff.
So let's say there's a zero day
where I have some hack
and NVIDIA,
because they were notified of it,
they patched it.
But you have a fallback
and if I somehow managed
to block your ability
to resolve
or to access that,
now you're still
picking up the old stuff
and you're building those
into your Docker, right?
So it's not just availability.
It's,
this is why it's not just,
you know,
it's not just availability
and fallback.
It is consistency
so that when you push an update,
it forces an update, right?
Right.
So when I,
when I said I thought
there'd be some kind
of backup fallback,
in my mind,
I don't even know
that this isn't the pepper
that it's addressed at all.
It may be,
I don't recall that it is,
is before PyPI allows it
to be listed
as a new version,
they've downloaded
a local copy
and they've got the new one.
They're not going
to serve it to you,
but they have it.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
We'll see.
It's going to be interesting
to see if this gets accepted
and what implications there are.
But on the other hand,
the flip side is,
it's also scary
that pip and PyPI
have over $100,000
of donated bandwidth.
And if that donation
ever stops,
all of a sudden,
out of the blue,
we'd also be in a world
of hurt, right?
And so if we could
distribute that risk
a little,
which I think
is the purpose
of this PIP,
that's helpful.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think
it would be interesting
to solve that problem.
I like to solve
technical problems
at the technical level
and economic problems
at the economic level,
right?
And so conflating
these two
can lead to,
I think,
it muddles things a bit.
So the question is,
what is a good design
for a distributed
high performance
but consistent
and secure repository?
Well,
that is traditional CDN.
I mean,
it's not really
that hard of a problem.
It's been solved many times
by many different kinds
of people, right?
Whether it's Windows update,
Apple update,
whether it's like
what we do with Conda,
you put a CDN
in front of
a consistent
sort of index
and you force that
kind of consistent index
and you do that
and that's okay,
that's what you do.
Now,
how you fund that
is a different question,
right?
And so it could be,
we fund,
we just put all the money
into the PyPA
or some PSF delegate
organization
that goes
and just runs
a packaging thing,
some consortium
that people donate into.
I mean,
$100,000 a month.
Yeah,
I mean,
look,
the Conda repos
cost more than that.
We ship a lot of binaries,
right?
So I think
the bandwidth cost
maybe more than
what you're citing
actually for PyPI
because it's much
more popular in Conda.
But at the end of the day,
it is something
on the order
of a few million dollars
a year,
I think,
in CDN equivalent costs.
And when you look at
how many people
use it in the world
and depend on it,
there is that budget
available in the world.
So the fact that
we as a community
don't know how to talk
to the businesses
that depend on it
to get those dollars,
that's our problem.
That's not really,
because businesses
spend more than that
on marketing parties,
launch parties
for random crap,
right?
We have infrastructure
that powers the world
and we as a volunteer
kind of community
of people who love Python
can't figure out
how to have a conversation
with them
to get a few more
million dollars out of them.
That's our problem.
How do we get better at that?
Yeah, yeah, for sure.
Well, let's just go back
to BitTorrent.
All right.
Speaking of companies
that have some money
to work with,
let's talk Excel.
Let's talk about Excel, yeah.
Literally, it's the tool
that probably processes
the most financial numbers
in the world, you know?
You know, it is ironic
that you mention this now
because you brought up
TOB,
and I would say Excel
is the dominant programming
environment in the world.
Yeah.
And Excel...
Didn't make the list.
Maybe it should.
I should go talk
to the TOB editors.
If it's not the most
programming,
popular programming thing,
it probably is the most
widely deployed database.
Yes.
It is the world's
most popular database,
the world's most popular
computational environment,
programming environment.
Yeah.
Because it actually,
it was the last one
of the things
from the 70s and 80s
with, like,
end-user computing
and programming for everyone.
This was one of the last
great tools,
you know,
the spreadsheet.
So normal people,
muggles,
could approach this
and put computational
things together.
But it has limited
expressiveness.
Well,
I don't mean that
in a mean way,
but just to say that
people, you know,
you don't really want to see
hundreds of lines of Excel.
Like, that's kind of
a terrifying thing, right?
Because it is a very much
an immediate mode
data transformation
kind of language.
And so the Anaconda
toolbox for Excel
is there to complement
the Python support
that just recently
got added to Excel.
And that's GA.
Yeah, I was going to say,
let's start there, actually.
Sure, sure.
Because why does this exist?
Didn't Microsoft
just add Python to Excel?
Yes.
So that's worth
talking about, right?
So Windows,
Excel on Windows
has support
for Python
in the formula bar.
So if you have
Windows
and you run Excel,
you can type
equals PY
in the formula bar
and start punching
in Python code,
multiple line Python code.
You can refer
to cell ranges
and it will spill
your data frames
into the grid.
You can chart things.
It's insane
that we're here.
It's amazing that works.
Now, the way that works
is it analyzes your code.
It actually looks
at the range references
and the cell reference
and everything else,
pulls all that data
and your code,
and it sends it
over the wire
to Azure Confidential Compute,
which is an extra secure,
extra lockdown version
of Azure.
and it runs
the code there
on a customized
Anaconda environment
that we built for that.
So you have access
to a lot of the data tools
that you would expect,
pandas,
net plotlib,
things like that.
So you do all that stuff
and then it comes back
and then it sort of
renders in the grid.
So the computational environment
doesn't have access
to your full spreadsheet
and it also doesn't have access
to the internet.
So there's no risk
of data leakage and loss
and things like that
or tampering.
So in any case...
It probably also doesn't have access
to your local file system
if you've got other things
to pull in
or you want to write
a Python file
and import it as a module.
None of that, right?
Exactly.
And you've served
as a wonderful straight man
for me here
because that is a bit
of a limitation.
So the pluses are,
number one,
it's built in
and it runs
the full-on
like Anaconda install
on the Azure
confidential compute.
So you have access
to the bona fide packages
and whatnot
for doing data analysis.
The downside is
there's no access
to the internet,
to your local file system,
things like that.
You have to sort of
load those into Excel
and then punch that data over.
So to complement that,
we created this thing
that we call
the Anaconda toolbox.
And so that is actually
a WebAssembly-based
plugin for Microsoft Excel
and it runs
on the Mac version
of Excel as well
and it runs locally.
So it is an Anaconda
WebAssembly sort of environment
hosted inside a plugin
for Excel.
So that then has
sort of richer access
to things,
but it is limited
in that only those libraries
that we cross-compiled
into WebAssembly
can work in there.
That being said,
you can use
sort of a pip install,
install pure Python packages,
into that environment.
And you can also then,
you know,
one of the interesting things
that we heard from people
was that they,
look,
they could be a Microsoft shop.
They trust,
of course,
they trust Azure,
they trust Microsoft,
but they just have an IT policy
where they're not allowed
to sort of,
they don't want the risk
at all of the data
leaving their local machine.
and this would run
everything local.
It's just running
everything local
on your laptop
or on your workstation
directly inside the grid.
And we're working,
I mean,
the Excel team,
you know,
knows we're doing this.
They like seeing
some things we're doing here.
And our hope here
is that actually with this,
we can explore features
and run a little bit ahead
of where the built-in
Excel capability is.
So they have,
they sort of have a way
to sort of almost,
not quite A-B test,
but see what kind of features
are good
and what features
are not as interesting.
And they can then
eventually over time,
I think,
roll those into the mainline
Excel support.
Because when you have
a product like Excel
that's relied upon
by so many people,
you actually are limited
in how fast you can move
and in what things
you can roll in.
Because once you put a thing in,
you really can't take it out.
Right?
Yeah,
it's almost like
a programming language.
Yeah.
It's a really important thing
that people make
billion-dollar decisions
based on the values
popping out of those cells.
so it's really important
that that team is able
to focus on the stability
and have, you know,
a very refined user experience.
For us,
we can move a little faster,
try different kinds of things.
So one of the things
that we're really exploring
and one of the things
I'm hoping will come out
of this Excel work
is that we will see
much more cross-team collaboration
between data science
kind of folks
and business analysts
and other kind of stakeholders
who may themselves
not be writing Python
or not be very familiar
with Python,
but using a toolbox,
using our toolbox,
you know,
one of the things
we have in there
are simple ways
to share code snippets
and simple ways
to share new kinds
of data sources
and to have,
you know,
really a lot of ways
to make like simple dashboards
and visualizations
that then essentially
turn your Excel spreadsheet
from not just a database
and a computational environment,
but into a full-on application
deployment environment.
so for data scientists,
you know,
one thing I've heard a lot
over the years
from data science folks
is that they turn into
service providers
for their teams
where they're just being asked
for new Excel outputs
every single week
or every couple of weeks
they come back around
and say,
hey,
that was great
what you did
with all your magic code stuff
and,
but can you rerun
that analysis
but this way
and email me the,
you know,
email me the CSV
or the spreadsheet
and so with this,
you can now deploy
your code forward
into a spreadsheet
that's then the live
forward deployed thing.
It can pull from
a Jupyter notebook
that you have running
and hosted
and then you actually
are using this
to deploy a live version
of a self-service
data environment
analysis environment
for your business stakeholders.
Right,
you create almost an API
for your data
that Excel's the front end.
You turn your notebooks
into APIs
and then your end users
are using Excel
which is their native environment
as a way
to hit that API
to generate really quick
visualizations.
We have a built-in,
you know,
LLM chat
so you can ask
for new kinds of this
and tweak plots
this way and that way
and when you like
what you've got
you can share it
as a snippet
to other people.
So that's a really
powerful modality.
We believe that's
a very powerful modality
but this is the kind
of feature
which we want to get
out there.
A lot of people
play with it.
We'll tweak it
and then once it gets
really dialed in
then that's something
which the Excel team
might look at and say
oh yeah,
that's kind of
what it should look like.
Now let's go
and build this
into Excel itself.
Let's go build this
into native SharePoint
and Outlook
and other kinds of,
you know,
things.
So anyway,
that's kind of
the point of it
but we're really
super excited
about all the kinds
of innovation
that can happen
in this toolbox
but we really rely
on end users,
right,
to give us
that kind of feedback.
What do you do
at the notebook level
to make it hosted
and accessible
as an API?
Is that just
straight Jupyter
or is there something
more interesting?
Yeah, no,
it's straight Jupyter
but if you host
that and so
all of this sort of
to get access
to the toolbox
you need to just
create an Anaconda.
It's a free
Anaconda Cloud account
and then the notebooks
are going to be the ones
hosted in your
Anaconda Cloud
account
and then the snippets
are also there.
So everything is sort
of shared
through your Anaconda
account,
right,
and so then
your friends
who are using this
can just reference
that and drop that in
and then they're able
to use the code.
Yeah,
well,
that sounds pretty awesome.
Are you able to,
you know,
you said it's based
on WebAssembly.
Are you able to
create your own packages
as WebAssembly things
or pip install things
that are not
what was in the basement?
Yes,
you can pip install things.
Absolutely.
That's the,
that's also the power
of this is that
you can kind of
go a little nuts.
It is a little bit
Wild West.
So definitely use
with caution.
There are a lot
of foot guns,
but,
but again,
as a plugin,
we can do more
of that exploration
and find out
where,
where people,
where the comfort level
is,
both for individual users
as well as
for organizations,
right?
And,
and we do have,
I do want to plug
that we have a webinar
coming up.
It'll be
exactly when it is,
but we have a webinar
coming up around
using,
using the assistant
and all that.
And I should have been
prepared with that
information before
mentioning it.
No worries.
I'll tell you what,
let's put it in the show notes.
Send it to me.
Put it in the show notes.
Yeah,
yeah.
Yeah.
Awesome.
So a question from Dennis
in the audience,
someone who it sounds like
is really in the know
for these things
asking this sort of question.
Yes.
Okay.
So Anaconda Toolbox
Let me read it
for the people
who are not watching.
Anaconda Toolbox
for Excel,
which kind of licenses
are needed
to make use
of this combination
in an O365 environment?
Right.
So Office 365
right now,
right,
doesn't support
the built-in Excel stuff
because that's again,
just for Excel
on Windows.
And so you can use
Anaconda Toolbox
inside there
and the toolbox,
it is,
it's free for you to use.
We will have sort of
some upgraded
and premium features
built into that,
but you just need
to create an Anaconda
Cloud login
or create a cloud account
and then you should
be able to use that.
So if you just have
any version of Excel,
you don't need things
special.
The Office 365 version
of Excel,
right?
That's like the web,
that's the web hosted.
I see.
Got it.
And that's why it's web.
I'm assuming that's
what that's referring to.
I maybe misunderstand
the question,
but hopefully that
made sense for Dennis.
Yeah.
I'm not sure.
There's a lot going on
with licensing
in Office 365
for sure.
I bet there's people,
I'm sure there are people
whose job it is
to just know the licensing.
Oh, sure.
Yeah.
And large organizations
of 100,000 Windows users.
One thing to be clear
is that for people
who are in a corporate
environment,
your administrators,
your IT administrators
will have to,
it depends on what update
cycle they're on
that they take updates
to Office
and Excel.
So even though
the Excel for Python
or Python for in Excel
feature is generally
available now,
your internal corporate
environment may not
be picking up that feature
until the next kind
of iteration cycle
when they,
you know,
the refresh cycle
they do internally.
So that's just a caveat
that I will put up there.
Okay.
And I may have missed this
when you're talking about it,
but do people need
to have the Microsoft
Python Excel support
to work with
your toolbox?
You know,
I,
that's a question
I should know
the answer for.
I'm assuming,
I'm going to say yes,
because you should
have that support anyway,
be using that.
But,
oh,
no,
I mean,
actually,
if you're on Windows,
you should do it,
but you don't have to have it
because it is a plugin
that works on Mac
and it works on the web
as well,
on Excel,
Office 365
on the web.
So it runs
kind of independently,
but we tried to make it
as compatible as possible.
And one thing
I forgot to mention,
really huge feature,
is that you can build
your own UDFs,
right?
Like,
your ability
to write a new function
and then have that
be available.
You can publish that
as a function
that isn't available
in the built-in
list of Excel functions.
And you can run that
on a row
and just drag
and applies to everything
in a row.
Like,
it's a very nice way
to do some custom functions.
Yeah.
Okay.
It sounds really neat.
And I think WebAssembly
gives you
a lot of flexibility,
especially since there's,
as you said,
the web version.
Is that WebAssembly version
based on
Pyoxide?
Pyodide?
Yep.
Sorry,
I'm mixing these together.
Pyodide or PyScript?
I know you did a lot of work
with PyScript and that.
PyScript and Pyodide,
I believe.
I don't know exactly
which portions are which.
It definitely relies
on Pyodide
for the WebAssembly runtime
because we're using
some of those data packages
which are built
against Pyodide.
Okay.
Yeah,
that's really great.
So what do you see
people doing?
I mean,
you described some scenarios,
but you got any
interesting stories
of what some things
people are able
to accomplish with this?
Oh,
well,
so not the toolbox
specifically,
but with the
Excel support,
the Python for Excel support.
Last week,
we were in Chicago,
Microsoft Ignite,
and a gentleman
from KPMG
was talking about
how he turned
hundreds of lines
of very involved
VBA
for doing this
tax preparation analysis.
He turned it into
just a few dozen lines
of Python code.
Right.
And so I think
that is
that speaks
to the power
of this
in that
what I hope
to see
is
that
many more people
in the Excel
environment
are able to
use the great tools
we have for data
transformation in Python,
but more importantly
that it brings
the,
it lowers
and reduces
the friction
between the data
science teams
and their business
stakeholders.
I think data scientists
get trapped a lot
in becoming
kind of the data
monkeys for folks.
Right.
This Excel spreadsheet
is awesome.
Could you generate
me one with the new
data from today?
Because now we've got
more traffic.
Or rerun the thing
or whatever else.
And what I hope
actually,
maybe the deeper,
more transformational
thing is,
I hope it
creates
more interesting
spreadsheets
that causes
all of these
business users
to be thinking,
to have their eyes
open about
how much more
interesting ways
there are
to think about
their quantifiable
problems,
to run what-if
analyses,
to,
you know,
to slide a slider
bar and say,
okay,
I want to see this
weekly,
monthly,
yearly.
I want to line
to,
you know,
week starts
or I want to
start to calendar
years or whatever
else.
Simple snapshot
and kinds of
things,
which when you
are,
I think,
a very,
very experienced
Excel person,
you know you
can do it,
but it is a
very involved
process.
It's like writing
machine code,
right?
It's very
involved.
And so,
with this,
you can just
say,
oh,
with three
lines of
Python,
I've now
transformed my
data in bulk.
It's vector
oriented and
array oriented,
data frame oriented.
I think the more
people think about
that and the
more they realize
how easy it is
to do pivot
tables with just
switching two or
three parameters
in a couple of
lines of pandas
or polars code,
like,
mind blown,
right?
As opposed to
clicking around
on UIs all the
time.
So,
I'm really...
I think it's
going to be a
gateway.
Yeah,
I'm really
hoping,
yeah.
Yeah,
I think the way
that Python has
kind of brought
people who didn't
see themselves as
data scientists
into the data
science realm
and eventually
they're like,
fine,
I'm just going to
work in notebooks
instead of my
other tools or
whatever.
I feel like
this could have
a similar effect.
Like,
this is really
cool.
I didn't know
we could do
this.
And then,
so this is all
Python.
Yeah,
this is all
Python in the
back end.
Maybe we should
just do that
directly.
You know what I
mean?
Sort of work,
get their feet wet
move into that
direction.
So,
yeah.
Yeah,
I'm trying to get
my folks here to
get those links
across to you so
you can put those
in the show notes.
Yeah.
So,
I think it's going
to have that
kind of interesting
effect.
The reason I brought
up this,
eight of the biggest
Excel mistakes
things of all the
time,
there's all these
different articles
of weird things
because,
for example,
MI5 bugged the
wrong phones
because there was
some formatting
error that
autofilled or
we had to
change the name
of a gene
because it kept
getting cars
as March
and all this
random craziness.
Right?
Right,
right,
right.
So,
I think having
Python available
because to me,
Excel feels like
the world's most
insane,
non-visible set
of go-to statements.
I go here,
then I go to that
cell,
then I go to here,
then I go over
there,
and then we do
this,
but you can't
look at the
spreadsheet
and know that
that's what it's
doing,
right?
But with Python
in there,
you have a much
more structured
way of thinking
about your data
and you're not
forced into
17 interconnected
go-to statements.
Yeah,
and you reminded
me of the thing
which I said
before and I just
forgot to mention
that if you put
more of the business
logic into the
Python code,
well,
guess what?
You can check
in Python code
and you can
diff Python code
and it uses
variable names
and variable
references.
And if you do
a little bit
of hygienic
approach to this,
you set your
variable references
to cell range
to the top,
then you manipulate
the variables
and then you put
the outputs
down there
and now you
really have
very clean
business logic
you can follow.
not to say
that Python
doesn't have
its warts,
of course,
I'm not some
like,
you know,
whatever.
I see,
I know how
complex a Jupyter
notebook can get
for instance,
but at the end
of the day,
you're absolutely
right that Excel
is at the same
time both
so functional,
right?
It is a data flow
language,
it is immediate
mode,
dependency graph
oriented,
you know,
in the grid.
A lot of good
things about
reactive,
live,
a lot of great
things about
that model
for normals,
for normies,
for muggles,
whatever you want to call
them,
people who are not
imperative iterated state
machine coders like we
are,
right?
But there is a place
for that too,
right?
Because you're absolutely
right,
people will have these
like weird linkages
between different bits
and pieces when what
they really wanted was
a couple of named
references and then
some iterative logic
or imperative logic on
those things with a
branch statement
somewhere.
you know,
a couple of
for loops,
nif then statement
can go a long way
to simplifying
very complicated
data flows.
Yeah,
that and
vector math
rather than
copy the formula,
drag it down
20,000 rows.
Right.
At least they warn you
now,
at least they warn you
again when like
you're off by one
and you forgot
you omitted a value.
There's like a little
yellow triangle.
Okay,
that's good.
That's good.
Yeah.
Nice.
All right,
well,
let's,
you know,
let's talk about
a couple other things
while you hear
that you all are into.
We just,
there we go.
We just had
Fabio drop in
and he
did a lot of the work.
I've had him on the show
at least once,
maybe twice,
to talk about PyScript.
Do you want to give us
a PyScript update?
Yeah,
I mean,
they've been just,
yeah,
they've been.
MicroPython,
by the way,
this is huge right here.
Yeah,
like it just works,
right?
Yeah,
tell us about it.
Well,
so when we first
released PyScript,
it was,
it was a sort of
proof of concept,
like,
oh my God,
you can,
with doing some
like interesting things,
you can now just be writing
bracket PyDash script
inside HTML
and be executing
first class.
But we were running
on Pyodide,
which is a full-on
CPython build
and it can then
import things like
NumPy
and Matplotlib.
But,
but it was kind of
heavy to load.
It was a lot.
Right.
It was more designed
for things like
Jupyter Lite
and these,
we're like,
we're going to load up
a big notebook
and we're going to do
awesome,
awesome stuff.
It's zero install,
right?
It's like you literally
can just run everything
in the browser
without installing anything
because it's really
downloading everything
into the browser.
Yeah,
which is fine
if you just start up
once,
but if you're trying
to build
a consumer-facing
web app,
it might be way too heavy.
Exactly.
It's not really
a replacement for that.
So what we did
most recently,
number one,
we added MicroPython
support.
MicroPython
is less than 80 kilobytes
or so,
no,
maybe 300 kilobytes.
Now,
PyScript and MicroPython
together is like 300 kilobytes
and it starts in
under a second.
So now you really
can use Python
instead of JavaScript
to go and do things
in the DOM.
So we have full DOM support.
You know,
there's a native web API
to manipulate the DOM
and it supports
web workers
and async
and blocking calls
and native storage.
So you can actually,
use the MicroPython bit
and that's where
the bracket mpy-script
and that loads
with the MicroPython environment
and you can now be
then loading
the full Pyodide PyScript
in the back end
and as an asynchronous
sort of web worker.
So it's really
an interesting thing
that is,
you can do a lot
of interesting things
with it now,
I think.
And we have experimental
support for R
so we've not left
our R friends
in the data science
community behind.
so that'll be great
and,
you know,
we have some basic
LLM and AI demos
and there's people
working on running this
on microcontrollers
and so you can go
manipulate,
you know,
embedded devices
and everything.
So it's just a fun,
fun thing.
Community is building
interesting things.
At PyCon,
Lukash gave a really
interesting talk
showing how to do
like 3D,
like WebGL
kind of stuff
with PyScript.
So I would say
just,
yeah,
we're sort of
right now,
you know,
we have PyScript.com
where if you want
to build things
and share them
more easily,
that's great.
But if you just
want to use this
as a technology,
you totally should.
Just take it
and play with it
and make little
things with it.
Now,
there's weekly calls,
I think,
community calls
that we do.
Just join in,
hop in on the Discord
and just get involved.
I think it's a really
fun thing.
Yeah,
I'm really,
I'm very excited
about it.
I would love to see
something like a view
or a React
just,
where just,
here's your front end
and you get to write it
in this language
you all love
and already know.
I'm not necessarily
hating on JavaScript,
but,
you know,
it's just not,
yeah,
I know,
but I'm not intent,
my thought more is
you're already
working in one language.
Why do I need
to do a second language
just because of
the place in which
that language
executes
is so dramatically
limited,
right?
It's the whole reason
that Node became
a thing is
we're already
doing JavaScript.
Can we just keep
doing JavaScript?
That's right.
Well,
for Python people,
it's just reverse that,
right?
Right,
right.
And there's a lot
of really nice frameworks
for front end stuff.
And the nice thing
about PyScript
is that it is pretty easy
to use the JavaScript bridge
to call to all
of those things,
right?
What we don't have
is a Python wrapper
around those things
so you can keep
staying in the Python language.
Yes,
exactly.
You have to use
little proxy objects.
But for the most part,
it's pretty nice
to,
like some on the examples,
the 3.js examples,
some of these other things
show how you can,
you know,
manipulate the JavaScript
objects directly.
And we're just,
you know,
looking for more people
to add interesting
things to it.
But I agree with you.
Something that is
like a,
you know,
a Vue.js
or React kind of thing
that's natively PyScript
would be,
I think,
really unlock
kind of that next phase
of community growth
and developer excitement.
Yeah.
Yeah,
yeah.
It feels like
the notebook
in the browser
deal is almost nailed.
Right.
But the,
I'm going to replace
my React front end
with a Python front end.
that's probably
the next frontier.
Yeah.
Maybe what I ought to do
is I ought to put
a bounty up there
for someone to build
a PyScript,
PyScript React
thing embedded
inside a Wasm object
or Wasm container
on the app protocol
and just put like
a $20,000 bounty out there
and see who gets
there first.
Because I think
that would show us
how it could get done.
There are some things
in decentralized web,
these frame objects
and whatnot
that are there
to put little applets
in the on-chain.
And I think we're,
maybe we just,
people just need
a little kick like that
to really motivate them.
Yeah,
that would be amazing.
Right.
Yeah,
there was the whole keynote.
There's been several versions.
You know,
Carol Willing gave one of them.
Russell Keith McGee
gave one.
Sort of about,
there's the few places
that are really important
in computing
that Python doesn't really touch.
And it was kind of
mobile and web front end,
right?
Right.
And so that would
take down one of those two,
which would be pretty amazing.
And maybe indirectly somehow
find its way to mobile
if it could be on the web,
you know?
Yeah,
React Native is how a lot of people
are doing the mobile development.
So if you have a wrapper
for React,
like that should,
that should be there,
right?
Yeah,
exactly.
That'd be wild.
Yeah.
Awesome.
Okay.
Let's talk,
you got a few minutes
to talk to Blue Sky
real quick
before we wrap things up?
Yeah,
I do.
Yep.
You have a really
interesting profile here
on,
I'll certainly put that
into the show notes.
I am a new Blue Sky.
I just created an account
last week.
Finally,
I was thinking,
you know,
already I'm on Mastodon
and I'm kind of on Twitter
and I've just got a lot to,
I've got a lot of email addresses.
I kind of got enough,
right?
but really recently,
a lot of people
have been moving
from the tech space
to Blue Sky
and I'm like,
you know what?
Two,
I had two thoughts.
One,
like,
I'll just create an account
and see what it's like over there.
Why not?
That was thought one.
Thought two is,
I better go there
before somebody steals
like the podcast handle
in my name
and stuff,
you know,
like that
because that happened
on Mastodon
before I got there.
I'm like,
oh,
maybe not.
So,
yeah,
so I now have
at mkennedy.codes
as I'm here officially,
right?
Right.
But,
yeah,
so I'm really,
I'm surprisingly delighted by it.
So maybe,
good,
good.
I've seen you talking about
a couple of projects
and different things.
So,
yeah,
you want to riff on that
for a minute?
Yeah,
so,
I know you're writing
a lot about it,
right?
You just did an article
or something on it.
Oh,
no,
I haven't yet.
I've been meaning to.
This is the Thanksgiving
post-tryptophan
induced haze.
I might go
and just bang something out.
Okay.
But I should,
I should tell my story,
I guess,
and my interaction
with this ecosystem
that,
you know,
obviously,
I think most people
know me for my engagement
in Python
and Python,
PyData,
Anaconda,
all these kinds of things.
But,
but for about eight years now,
I've been involved
in the decentralized web
community
in one form or another.
I go to some of the camps
that the Internet Archive
puts together
and I funded some projects
around this area.
And years ago,
I started funding a project
called Beaker Browser,
which is a decentralized
web browser
for looking at local,
it was a local first
web browser
that was imminently
modifiable.
And then you would
then use
some kind of backend
data transport
like IPFS
or HyperCore,
DAT,
whatever kinds of things.
And so you have
a very different approach
to building websites,
building web apps
when you have
this data
decoupled
from the view,
right?
Ultimately,
I had surmised
that a lot
of the
crappiness
of the current
Internet
and social media apps
and all these kinds
of things
was due ultimately
to a flaw
in the
way,
in the web itself,
which is the
client server model.
Intrinsically dumps
user data.
And from a software
architecture perspective,
what we might say
is that we take
an MVC architecture
and we split
the view model
and we put the view
model out here
but we put the
business logic
and the model
over here
and it's all owned
by a trillion dollar
tech company,
right?
And so all of us
that have to pay
They observe the heck
out of it as the data
flows, right?
They observe the heck
out of that
and they sell those
observations
and they profit
handsomely from it.
So that,
but then it also
leads to all sorts
of, you know,
there's a lot of,
there's a dark shadow
to all of that,
right?
Which is not good
from a civil libertarian
as well as from
an entrepreneur
from a tech
innovator perspective.
I don't like any of that.
So my investment
into these decentralized
web technologies
were funded,
were fueled
by this,
this realization
that I had
that we had to
really rebuild
internet architecture
from the bottom up
and how we build
applications, period.
So you can actually
draw a thematic line
from where my investments
and things like Beaker Browser
to us supporting
at Anaconda
development of tools
like PyScript
and Beware
Russell and Keith McGee,
right?
Empowering end users
to build applications
and permissionlessly
and as easily as possible
share them
with other users
so we have a lot
of innovation
and creativity
and joy
ultimately
in this creative space
that computing
actually should be.
So ultimately
Beaker Browser
didn't work out
as a company
but the guy
who was behind it
spent four years,
I mean,
I funded him
for those four years
doing a lot of experiments
and what does
decentralized Twitter,
decentralized Reddit,
decentralized Facebook,
what do these kinds
of like local
first experiences
look like?
What is the right
design for a protocol
to do like,
you know,
because he worked
on secure scuttlebutt
and these gossip networks
like what Nostra sort of has
and then like
what are the things
where we have to centralize?
All of those learnings
kind of got wrapped up
into then
what is now
App Protocol
and Blue Sky.
So he got hired in
by Jay
who's the CEO
of Blue Sky
to go and build
what is now
the Blue Sky app
and the App Protocol
is the result
of the Beaker Browser
guy,
Paul Frazee,
working closely
with, you know,
people like Jeremy
and others
that are the core devs
at Blue Sky.
And so
that's kind of my connection
to this ecosystem.
So I'm user number six
or seven,
I think,
user number six
on the network
and I'm a big,
huge proponent
of this stuff.
So
that has like
no formal intersection
with my work
in the Python space.
It's just another aspect
of technology
that I'm very passionate about.
but both
are actually
connected thematically
in the sense
of empowering
end users.
Actually,
the Python bit,
PyData,
the Excel bit,
and then the Blue Sky bit
all connect
in the sense
of empowering
people,
regular humans,
to use computers
to the best,
to making
their lives better.
whether it's asking
more interesting questions
of the world,
whether it's being able
to then share
and deploy the things
they've built
with other people,
whether it's,
you know,
reaching out to more
and more people.
Excel has a billion users
or something like that,
some hundred million users.
Right.
Meet them where they are.
Yeah.
Right?
And then with Blue Sky,
it's how do we kind of
go and like
just have a different way
of people connecting
to each other
on the internet,
being able to make
interesting things
and really share
in a spirit
of collaboration.
And so one of the
really important things
about Blue Sky
is that the way
the moderation system works,
all those block lists
and all those kinds
of things that people have,
you know,
I'm an old school
internet guy
and I remember
if you were on Usenet,
you would have a thing
called a K-file.
It's your local kill file,
right?
Which is people
I just don't effing
want to hear from
because they're obviously idiots.
And your readers,
news readers
would respect that,
right?
And so something
that Paul and I
talked about
years ago
was a social K-file
would be a way
to have a social group
be able to really
just disincentivize
and lock out
the bad faith interactions,
right?
Now, of course,
you could go too far
with that
and just create
a little echo chamber
for yourself,
but there is a lot
of space
between spammers,
trolls everywhere,
spamming us
with like crypto spam
and just like total
echo chamber.
There's space
in the middle,
right?
So I think what
Blue Sky is demonstrating
with the shared block lists
and things like that
and people just being able
to mute things,
built into the UI,
those are the kinds of tools
we can make available
when the company
and the technology
isn't incentivized
to create more angry
bullshit sort of interactions
and engagement.
algorithms don't promote that
and push the heck out of it
to get engagement.
The default Blue Sky algorithm
is just chronological feed
of following.
So if you don't want
to see somebody's stuff,
don't follow them.
You know,
if you go to some
of the other feeds,
there's more algorithmic
stuff there
if you want to have it,
but by default,
it's just whoever
you chose to follow.
And if you don't like
what they say
and you know them,
you should engage with them
and say,
hey man,
I don't agree with that.
Like, let's talk about that.
Right?
Or unfollow them
or just to follow them.
It's like,
you know what?
They talk too much
about politician XYZ.
I don't want to hear
about that.
Right?
It's a very simple approach.
I need a space
where I don't want
to hear about that.
Yeah.
One thing I'll give
a shout out
to help people get started
if they're interested in
is they have
this cool idea
called starter packs.
Right.
And I created one
called Python Personalities.
And you're on here,
Peter.
So if they follow
the starter pack,
they'll automatically
follow you.
But there's
click follow
and you get 60,
70,
Python,
nice,
engaged people
to follow.
And if you want
to find other
starter packs,
there's blueskydirectory.com.
That's right.
blueskydirectory.com.
There's 60,000
or so
of these directories.
Yeah.
And you can search too.
You can say,
I'm interested in Python
or I'm interested
in motorcycle
or whatever it is
you're interested in.
Right.
And there's AI.
Warsaw.
Yeah.
I saw somebody
have a starter pack
called Friendly Weather
Scientists Using AI
or something.
All right.
It's very specific.
Yeah.
It's very,
but if you want
that group,
there you are.
All right.
Let's close this out
with a real quick
bit of real-time feedback
from Fabio
from PyScript.
Oh, okay.
Yep.
There's a framework
called PuePy
on top of PyScript
that is native
and reactive
very early though.
Yes,
I had the guy on.
I'm sorry.
I don't remember
the first name
of the guy,
but I had the guy
behind PuePy on
and it looks
really interesting.
I'm hopeful for it
but I'm not necessarily
sure yet that it's
the answer.
And then Fabio
also says,
we're also working
on the invent framework
that is not really
comparable to React
for you
but in that direction.
I just love
his YouTube avatar.
He said,
wait,
hold on.
We should go
to his YouTube.
Look at that.
This is like
an amazing picture
from Halloween.
It's a very serious
business profile.
Yes,
Fabio's partner
is a world championship
winning sort of
body painter
and so he does
the photography.
That's not just
a random thing.
It's kind of related
to his family stuff.
Yeah,
but it's kind of hilarious
that that is his profile.
Awesome.
All right.
Well,
I suppose we're probably
out of time,
Peter,
but it's always delightful
to talk to you
and so many things
to come up with.
Yeah,
well,
thank you so much
for having me on.
This is a lot of fun.
Thank you.
Yeah,
you bet.
And I'll put the links
for all the things
we talked about
in the share notes.
Let's leave you
with a closeout
for the Excel thing.
People want to get
started with that.
What do they do?
Go to anaconda.com
slash Excel
or just go to your Excel,
again,
Excel for Windows,
just type in
equals PY,
see if that works.
And then for the
Anaconda toolbox,
you can just also
go into Excel
plugin finder
and you can find it there
or you just Google
Anaconda toolbox
and you'll find
install instructions there.
So definitely check it out
and give us feedback on it.
Awesome.
Thanks.
See you later.
Thank you.